templates/github/prompts/code-review.prompt.md, before:

---
description: "Perform comprehensive code review following methodology standards"
---

# Code Review

Perform a thorough code review of the selected code following the Portable Development Methodology standards.

## Review Criteria

### 1. Code Quality
- **Correctness**: Does the code work as intended?
- **Readability**: Is the code easy to understand?
- **Maintainability**: Will this code be easy to modify in the future?
- **Performance**: Are there any obvious performance issues?

### 2. Architecture & Design
- **Single Responsibility**: Does each function/class have a single, clear purpose?
- **Separation of Concerns**: Are different aspects properly separated?
- **Feature Organization**: Is code properly organized in the feature-based structure?
- **Reusability**: Can components be reused appropriately?

### 3. Security
- **Input Validation**: Are all inputs properly validated and sanitized?
- **Authentication/Authorization**: Are security measures properly implemented?
- **Error Handling**: Do error messages avoid exposing sensitive information?
- **Dependencies**: Are third-party dependencies secure and up-to-date?

### 4. Testing
- **Test Coverage**: Are there appropriate unit and integration tests?
- **Test Quality**: Are tests comprehensive and well-structured?
- **Edge Cases**: Are boundary conditions and error scenarios tested?

### 5. Documentation
- **Code Comments**: Is complex logic properly documented?
- **API Documentation**: Are public interfaces documented?
- **README Updates**: Is feature documentation current?
- **Project Memory**: Should `project_memory.md` be updated?

### 6. Methodology Compliance
- **Standards**: Does code follow the project's style guide in `docs/style-guide.md`?
- **Patterns**: Are established patterns and conventions followed?
- **Structure**: Is the feature-based organization maintained?

## Review Format

Provide feedback in this structure:
1. **Summary**: Overall assessment and key findings
2. **Strengths**: What's done well
3. **Issues**: Problems that need to be addressed (categorized by severity)
4. **Suggestions**: Improvement recommendations
5. **Action Items**: Specific changes needed before approval

Reference the current selection: ${selection}

Commit message:

✨ feat(copilot): modernize VS Code Copilot integration with latest standards
� Key Updates:
- Updated VS Code settings to follow current Copilot customization best practices
- Removed obsolete file references from user settings (project_memory.md, docs/*.md)
- Added workspace-level instruction and prompt file location settings
- Enhanced setup.sh to create comprehensive .github/instructions and .github/prompts structure

� Copilot Integration Improvements:
- Added methodology.instructions.md with core development principles
- Enhanced testing.instructions.md with comprehensive testing guidelines
- Improved security.instructions.md with detailed security practices
- Updated prompt files with mode="agent" and variable syntax (, )
- Added input variables and instruction file references to all prompts

� Enhanced Instruction Files:
- methodology.instructions.md: Core development principles with applyTo="**"
- testing.instructions.md: Testing patterns for test files with applyTo="**/*test*/**"
- security.instructions.md: Security guidelines for all code generation

� Prompt File Enhancements:
- create-feature.prompt.md: Added workspace context variables and instruction references
- code-review.prompt.md: Enhanced with severity levels and methodology compliance checks
- generate-tests.prompt.md: Added framework detection and test configuration generation

⚙️ VS Code Settings Cleanup:
- Removed project-specific file references from user settings.json
- Added github.copilot.chat.pullRequestDescriptionGeneration.instructions
- Ensured all settings follow official VS Code Copilot documentation standards
- Added workspace-level settings injection in setup.sh for portable configuration

� All changes ensure full compatibility with latest VS Code Copilot customization features while maintaining methodology portability across any development environment.

templates/github/prompts/code-review.prompt.md, after:

---
description: "Perform comprehensive code review following methodology standards"
mode: "agent"
---

# Code Review

Perform a thorough code review of the selected code following the Portable Development Methodology standards.

## Context

**File**: ${file}
**Selection**: ${selection}
**Workspace**: ${workspaceFolder}

Review the current code in context of:
- Project memory and decisions in `project_memory.md`
- Project guidelines in `docs/` folder
- Established patterns in the codebase

## Review Criteria

### 1. Code Quality
- **Correctness**: Does the code work as intended?
- **Readability**: Is the code easy to understand and follow?
- **Maintainability**: Will this code be easy to modify in the future?
- **Performance**: Are there any obvious performance issues or bottlenecks?

### 2. Architecture & Design
- **Single Responsibility**: Does each function/class have a single, clear purpose?
- **Separation of Concerns**: Are different aspects properly separated?
- **Feature Organization**: Is code properly organized in the feature-based structure?
- **Reusability**: Can components be reused appropriately across the project?

### 3. Security
- **Input Validation**: Are all inputs properly validated and sanitized?
- **Authentication/Authorization**: Are security measures properly implemented?
- **Error Handling**: Do error messages avoid exposing sensitive information?
- **Dependencies**: Are third-party dependencies secure and up-to-date?

### 4. Testing
- **Test Coverage**: Are there appropriate unit and integration tests?
- **Test Quality**: Are tests comprehensive and well-structured?
- **Edge Cases**: Are boundary conditions and error scenarios tested?
- **Test Maintainability**: Are tests easy to understand and maintain?

### 5. Documentation
- **Code Comments**: Is complex logic properly documented?
- **API Documentation**: Are public interfaces documented?
- **README Updates**: Is feature documentation current?
- **Project Memory**: Should `project_memory.md` be updated?

### 6. Methodology Compliance
- **Standards**: Does code follow the project's style guide in `docs/style-guide.md`?
- **Patterns**: Are established patterns and conventions followed?
- **Structure**: Is the feature-based organization maintained?
- **Principles**: Are the methodology principles being followed?

## Review Format

Provide feedback in this structure:
1. **Summary**: Overall assessment and key findings
2. **Strengths**: What's done well in the code
3. **Issues**: Problems that need to be addressed (categorized by severity: Critical, Major, Minor)
4. **Suggestions**: Improvement recommendations and best practices
5. **Action Items**: Specific changes needed before approval
6. **Methodology Notes**: Any methodology-specific observations

## Input Variables
- **Review Focus**: ${input:focus:Any specific areas to focus on? (security, performance, etc.)}
- **Severity Level**: ${input:severity:Review thoroughness level (quick/standard/comprehensive)}

[Reference the methodology instructions](.github/instructions/methodology.instructions.md)
[Reference the security guidelines](.github/instructions/security.instructions.md)
[Reference the testing guidelines](.github/instructions/testing.instructions.md)
